## What is Pinterest Ads?

#### Overview
Pinterest Ads provides “Promoted Pins”. Promoted Pins run on an auction system, like many other pay-per-click systems. Advertisers select a Promoted Pin, choose an objective they want to accomplish, and enter targeting criteria. They’ll place “bids” on having their ads shown to their target audience, and those who bid the most could win the placement. Your ads can either be shown to users who are browsing on Pinterest, or your Promoted Pins can appear in search results on Pinterest. Users can customize audience and targeting criteria to make sure their ads hit users with matching interests.

Pick a pin. Promote your best Pins so they appear in the most relevant places.
Decide who sees it. Set up targeting so the right people see your Promoted Pin.
Pay for results. Choose to pay for engagement or visits to your site.
Track what’s working. Once your campaign starts, see how it's doing and make changes.

#### Important Links:

* [PA Website](https://ads.pinterest.com/)
* [PA Ad Tools Docs](https://developers.pinterest.com/docs/ad-tools/conversion-tag/)
* [Beginners Guide to PA](https://www.shopify.com/blog/pinterest-ads)



## What Are We Trying to Accomplish?

### Overview:

We are creating a Pinterest Ads **server-side** API integration using node.js. The goal of this system is to replace Pinterest’s Conversion Tag running on the client. Our system will recieve event data coming from an existing client-side library (following Sement's analytics.js ecommerce spec), send it to a server-side router, map it to the appropriate Pinterest `pintrk()` tracking events, and <u>pass it into Pinterest’s API from the server</u>. The mapping logic needs to account for the **standard** Analytics.js E-commerce events, as well as any **custom** track events defined in the source code of the client-side web app.

* [Analytics.js - E-commerce events docs](https://segment.com/docs/spec/ecommerce/v2/)

### Unique Challenges:

Pinterest Ads should be a pretty simple integration to develop server-side, since it interfaces exclusively with its own services. The primary potential challenges we anticipate is User Identification - identifying the user without access to the normal cookies generated by Pinterest Tag running in the page, which are only available to Pinterest. Consider using matching attributes or first-party cookie data to solve this problem.



## Action Plan:

* Review and thoroughly familiarise yourself with Pinterest Ads and the relevant API’s.
* Research and document an Implementation Plan.
* For the purpose of this test, let's assume we have a Segment Facade object `receivedObject` from the attached `ProductAdded.js` file:
  * Create the appropriate object to be sent to Pinterest;
  * Send the object to the proper Pinterest API using your favourite `http` client;
  * Create a short report file with:
    * How did you create the object to be sent and why?
    * What are the results for this particular test?
    * How would you map all Analytics.js E-commerce events to the proper Pinterest event?

## Notes:

- You should spend about 2h researching and documenting, and a maximum of 1h writing code
- The aim is not to have a fully functional system in the end, but to evaluate the quality of research and your implementation approach